captions/cpc6128.md, before:

---
documentclass: article
fontsize: 8pt
mainfont: Roboto
geometry: [top=1cm, bottom=1.5cm, left=1cm, right=1cm]
---
[cpc6128]: cpc6128.svg "Amstrad CPC6128"

![][cpc6128]


# Amstrad CPC6128 

## Released: 1985
## Discontinued (UK): 1990

The Amstrad CPC6128 is one of a number of systems released by Amstrad in the UK and European markets during the height of the 8-Bit Computing Era, and is widely regarded as one of the most powerful and complete systems for the time.  

With superlative graphics, sound and storage capabilities, the Amstrad CPC6128 was also somewhat compatible with the ZX Spectrum computers, with which it competed - meaning that software developed for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum could be, relatively easily, also made available for the Amstrad CPC6128.

In an era of vastly incompatible systems, this was a definite strength for Amstrad - which eventually went on to not only dominate the 8-bit computer market, but also to outlast all competitors - even going so far as to purchase the Sinclair intellectual property when that company filed for bankrupcy. 

As a result, Amstrad became a clone-maker - (our ZX Spectrum 128+ example is an Amstrad-built version of the original ZX Spectrum) and was one of the only hardware companies to survive the crash of the 8-Bit Computing Era, relatively unscathed.

Our example is set up for your entertainment with a number of NEW titles, released this century for the system.  Devoted fans of the system continue to release new titles for the CPC6128, and we will strive to keep up with their new releases as they happen!

Please see additional Operating Instructions for guidance on how to use this system.


Links:

**[1] - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amstrad_CPC#CPC6128**

\pagenumbering{gobble}


\pagebreak
![][cpc6128]


# Operating Instructions

The Amstrad CPC6128 has been upgraded to use a USB Stick to load games, instead of the floppy disks traditionally used on original systems.

Be sure the USB stick as provided is inserted in the system.

Using the knob, you can scroll through the list of titles available on the USB stick, and when you find one you'd like to load, press the knob to select it on the USB.

Use the "CAT" command to find the name of the program on the USB Stick that you have selected, and then the "RUN" command to run that program - e.g.

`Ready`

`CAT`

`Drive A: user   0`

`PRINCE    .BIN  1K`

`168K free`

`Ready`

`RUN"PRINCE.BIN"`

Commit message:

if you need help, please ask the attendant.

captions/cpc6128.md, after:

---
documentclass: article
fontsize: 8pt
mainfont: Roboto
geometry: [top=1cm, bottom=1.5cm, left=1cm, right=1cm]
---
[cpc6128]: cpc6128.svg "Amstrad CPC6128"

![][cpc6128]


# Amstrad CPC6128 

## Released: 1985
## Discontinued (UK): 1990

The Amstrad CPC6128 is one of a number of systems released by Amstrad in the UK and European markets during the height of the 8-Bit Computing Era, and is widely regarded as one of the most powerful and complete systems for the time.  

With superlative graphics, sound and storage capabilities, the Amstrad CPC6128 was also somewhat compatible with the ZX Spectrum computers, with which it competed - meaning that software developed for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum could be, relatively easily, also made available for the Amstrad CPC6128.

In an era of vastly incompatible systems, this was a definite strength for Amstrad - which eventually went on to not only dominate the 8-bit computer market, but also to outlast all competitors - even going so far as to purchase the Sinclair intellectual property when that company filed for bankrupcy. 

As a result, Amstrad became a clone-maker - (our ZX Spectrum 128+ example is an Amstrad-built version of the original ZX Spectrum) and was one of the only hardware companies to survive the crash of the 8-Bit Computing Era, relatively unscathed.

Our example is set up for your entertainment with a number of NEW titles, released this century for the system.  Devoted fans of the system continue to release new titles for the CPC6128, and we will strive to keep up with their new releases as they happen!

Please see additional Operating Instructions for guidance on how to use this system.


Links:

**[1] - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amstrad_CPC#CPC6128**

\pagenumbering{gobble}


\pagebreak
![][cpc6128]


# Operating Instructions

The Amstrad CPC6128 has been upgraded to use a USB Stick to load games, instead of the floppy disks traditionally used on original systems.

**If you need _help_, ask for the Attendant.**

Be sure the USB stick as provided is inserted in the system.

Using the knob, you can scroll through the list of titles available on the USB stick, and when you find one you'd like to load, press the knob to select it on the USB.

Use the "CAT" command to find the name of the program on the USB Stick that you have selected, and then the "RUN" command to run that program - e.g.

`Ready`

`CAT`

`Drive A: user   0`

`PRINCE    .BIN  1K`

`168K free`

`Ready`

`RUN"PRINCE.BIN"`
