captions/zx.md, before:

---
documentclass: article
fontsize: 8pt
mainfont: Roboto
geometry: [top=1cm, bottom=1.5cm, left=1cm, right=1cm]
---
[zx]: zx.svg "ZX Spectrum"

![][zx]

# ZX Spectrum

## Released: 1982
## Discontinued (UK): 1992

The ZX Spectrum [1] was one of the mostly successful-selling computers of the 8-Bit Computing Era, with schoolkids all over the UK adopting the machine for their gaming and entertainment needs.  

It is one of the original systems of the 8-Bit Computing Era for which widespread software piracy was prevelant, as software at the time was released on Audio Cassettes which could very easily be copied.

The ZX Spectrum may not have had all the powerful features of its competition - sound and graphics were definitely better on other systems - but its relative affordability and widespread adoption meant that during the height of the 8-Bit Computing Era, it had more software releases every month on average than all the other systems combined.

The original ZX Spectrum had a very low quality keyboard, infamous for its fleshy, uncomfortable feel, and was often prone to failure when its flimsy connectors were disturbed - for this reason we have opted to exhibit the ZX Spectrum 128+, which is a vastly upgraded version of the original, from Amstrad.  Fully compatible with the original, the ZX Spectrum 128+ was nevertheless a major upgrade, featuring more memory, a better sound chip, keyboard, and improvements to the case and interface adapters that made it truly robust.

Our ZX Spectrum 128+ is set up for your entertainment with a selection of entries from the ZX Spectrum category of the 10-Line BASIC Competition, as well as a select number of modern, 21st-Century releases from ZX Spectrum devotees around the world.

Please see additional Operating Instructions for guidance on how to use this system.


Links:

**[1] - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZX_Spectrum**

\pagenumbering{gobble}

\pagebreak

![][zx]

# Operating Instructions

The ZX Spectrum 128+ has been upgraded to use a USB Stick to load games, instead of the floppy disks traditionally used on original systems.

Be sure the USB stick as provided is inserted in the system.

Using the knob, you can scroll through the list of titles available on the USB stick, and when you find one you'd like to load, press the knob to select it on the USB.

Press the "RESET" button on the left hand side of the machine, and then select the "LOADER" option from the menu which appears - this should load the software that you have selected on the USB stick.

Commit message:

if you need help, please ask the attendant.

captions/zx.md, after:

---
documentclass: article
fontsize: 8pt
mainfont: Roboto
geometry: [top=1cm, bottom=1.5cm, left=1cm, right=1cm]
---
[zx]: zx.svg "ZX Spectrum"

![][zx]

# ZX Spectrum

## Released: 1982
## Discontinued (UK): 1992

The ZX Spectrum [1] was one of the mostly successful-selling computers of the 8-Bit Computing Era, with schoolkids all over the UK adopting the machine for their gaming and entertainment needs.  

It is one of the original systems of the 8-Bit Computing Era for which widespread software piracy was prevelant, as software at the time was released on Audio Cassettes which could very easily be copied.

The ZX Spectrum may not have had all the powerful features of its competition - sound and graphics were definitely better on other systems - but its relative affordability and widespread adoption meant that during the height of the 8-Bit Computing Era, it had more software releases every month on average than all the other systems combined.

The original ZX Spectrum had a very low quality keyboard, infamous for its fleshy, uncomfortable feel, and was often prone to failure when its flimsy connectors were disturbed - for this reason we have opted to exhibit the ZX Spectrum 128+, which is a vastly upgraded version of the original, from Amstrad.  Fully compatible with the original, the ZX Spectrum 128+ was nevertheless a major upgrade, featuring more memory, a better sound chip, keyboard, and improvements to the case and interface adapters that made it truly robust.

Our ZX Spectrum 128+ is set up for your entertainment with a selection of entries from the ZX Spectrum category of the 10-Line BASIC Competition, as well as a select number of modern, 21st-Century releases from ZX Spectrum devotees around the world.

Please see additional Operating Instructions for guidance on how to use this system.


Links:

**[1] - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZX_Spectrum**

\pagenumbering{gobble}

\pagebreak

![][zx]

# Operating Instructions

The ZX Spectrum 128+ has been upgraded to use a USB Stick to load games, instead of the floppy disks traditionally used on original systems.

**If you need _help_, ask for the Attendant.**

Be sure the USB stick as provided is inserted in the system.

Using the knob, you can scroll through the list of titles available on the USB stick, and when you find one you'd like to load, press the knob to select it on the USB.

Press the "RESET" button on the left hand side of the machine, and then select the "LOADER" option from the menu which appears - this should load the software that you have selected on the USB stick.
